README.md, before:

# @jsquash/jxl

An easy experience for encoding and decoding JPEG XL images in the browser. Powered by WebAssembly ⚡️.

⚠️ No stable browser release supports displaying JPEG XL yet. This package is intended for experimentation and testing.

Uses the [libjxl](https://github.com/libjxl/libjxl) library.

A [jSquash](https://github.com/jamsinclair/jSquash) package. Codecs and supporting code derived from the [Squoosh](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/squoosh) app.

## Installation

```shell
npm install --save @jsquash/jxl
# Or your favourite package manager alternative
```

## Usage

Note: You will need to either manually include the wasm files from the codec directory or use a bundler like WebPack or Rollup to include them in your app/server.

### decode(data: ArrayBuffer): Promise<ImageData>

Decodes JPEG XL binary ArrayBuffer to raw RGB image data.

#### data
Type: `ArrayBuffer`

#### Example
```js
import { decode } from '@jsquash/jxl';

const formEl = document.querySelector('form');
const formData = new FormData(formEl);
// Assuming user selected an input JPEG XL file
const imageData = await decode(await formData.get('image').arrayBuffer());
```

### encode(data: ImageData, options?: EncodeOptions): Promise<ArrayBuffer>

Encodes raw RGB image data to JPEG format and resolves to an ArrayBuffer of binary data.

#### data
Type: `ImageData`

#### options
Type: `Partial<EncodeOptions>`

The JPEG XL encoder options for the output image. [See default values](./meta.ts).

#### Example
```js
import { encode } from '@jsquash/jxl';

async function loadImage(src) {
  const img = document.createElement('img');
  img.src = src;
  await new Promise(resolve => img.onload = resolve);
  const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
  [canvas.width, canvas.height] = [img.width, img.height];
  const ctx = canvas.getContext('2d');
  ctx.drawImage(img, 0, 0);
  return ctx.getImageData(0, 0, img.width, img.height);
}

const rawImageData = await loadImage('/example.png');
const jpegBuffer = await encode(rawImageData);
```

## Manual WASM initialisation (not recommended)

In most situations there is no need to manually initialise the provided WebAssembly modules.
The generated glue code takes care of this and supports most web bundlers.

One exception is CloudFlare workers. The environment at this time (this could change in the future) does not allow code to be dynamically imported. It needs to be bundled at runtime. WASM modules are set as global variables. [See the Cloudflare workers example](/examples/cloudflare-worker).

The `encode` and `decode` modules both export an `init` function that can be used to manually load the wasm module.

```js
import decode, { init as initJXLDecode } from '@jsquash/jxl/decode';

initJXLDecode(WASM_MODULE); // The global variable of the wasm module needs to be defined in the wrangler.toml file
const image = await fetch('./image.jpeg').then(res => res.arrayBuffer()).then(decode);
```

## Known Issues

See [jSquash Project README](https://github.com/jamsinclair/jSquash#known-issues)

Commit message:

doc: update other READMEs with up-to-date cloudflare info [ci skip]

README.md, after:

# @jsquash/jxl

An easy experience for encoding and decoding JPEG XL images in the browser. Powered by WebAssembly ⚡️.

⚠️ No stable browser release supports displaying JPEG XL yet. This package is intended for experimentation and testing.

Uses the [libjxl](https://github.com/libjxl/libjxl) library.

A [jSquash](https://github.com/jamsinclair/jSquash) package. Codecs and supporting code derived from the [Squoosh](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/squoosh) app.

## Installation

```shell
npm install --save @jsquash/jxl
# Or your favourite package manager alternative
```

## Usage

Note: You will need to either manually include the wasm files from the codec directory or use a bundler like WebPack or Rollup to include them in your app/server.

### decode(data: ArrayBuffer): Promise<ImageData>

Decodes JPEG XL binary ArrayBuffer to raw RGB image data.

#### data
Type: `ArrayBuffer`

#### Example
```js
import { decode } from '@jsquash/jxl';

const formEl = document.querySelector('form');
const formData = new FormData(formEl);
// Assuming user selected an input JPEG XL file
const imageData = await decode(await formData.get('image').arrayBuffer());
```

### encode(data: ImageData, options?: EncodeOptions): Promise<ArrayBuffer>

Encodes raw RGB image data to JPEG format and resolves to an ArrayBuffer of binary data.

#### data
Type: `ImageData`

#### options
Type: `Partial<EncodeOptions>`

The JPEG XL encoder options for the output image. [See default values](./meta.ts).

#### Example
```js
import { encode } from '@jsquash/jxl';

async function loadImage(src) {
  const img = document.createElement('img');
  img.src = src;
  await new Promise(resolve => img.onload = resolve);
  const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
  [canvas.width, canvas.height] = [img.width, img.height];
  const ctx = canvas.getContext('2d');
  ctx.drawImage(img, 0, 0);
  return ctx.getImageData(0, 0, img.width, img.height);
}

const rawImageData = await loadImage('/example.png');
const jpegBuffer = await encode(rawImageData);
```

## Manual WASM initialisation (not recommended)

In most situations there is no need to manually initialise the provided WebAssembly modules.
The generated glue code takes care of this and supports most web bundlers.

One situation where this arises is when using the modules in Cloudflare Workers ([See the README for more info](/README.md#usage-in-cloudflare-workers)).

The `encode` and `decode` modules both export an `init` function that can be used to manually load the wasm module.

```js
import decode, { init as initJXLDecode } from '@jsquash/jxl/decode';

initJXLDecode(WASM_MODULE); // The `WASM_MODULE` variable will need to be sourced by yourself and passed as an ArrayBuffer.
const image = await fetch('./image.jpeg').then(res => res.arrayBuffer()).then(decode);
```

## Known Issues

See [jSquash Project README](https://github.com/jamsinclair/jSquash#known-issues)
